---
title: "Hugo & Netlify (The Beginning)"
description: "How and why I decided to build this website"
date: "2021-12-17"
categories:
tags:
  - "hugo"
  - "netlify"
  - "website"
  - "blog"
---

## Intro

A year ago while still working on Flocky, I learned about static websites from a friend from my time at Arista. He talked about how blazingly fast static sites could load because of all of their content already being pre-rendered. This was really exciting to me given the amount of blood/sweat/tears my co-founder and I put into Flocky's website.

So, when I finally summoned the motivation to try out Amazon Braket, it gave me a reason to build a static website.

## Background

### What is a static website generator?

Well to start, a static website has all of its content pre-built as HTML, CSS, and Javascript files. These can be made by hand (which is how my friend made his), but that requires a lot more work, and frankly patience, than I had.

To gain the benefits of static websites without the tediousness of building them from scratch, someone came up with the idea of static site generators. They are a software framework that allows developers to pick from a discrete set of pre-built themes, input their personal content (text, images, etc), and then have all of the assets for the website built automatically. After the assets are built they can be put onto a server and then served as a static website.

### Isn't running a website still difficult?

Normally there's a lot that goes into setting up a website. However, Netlify is a magical place built specifically for static websites. I don't remember the full details because I set this up a year ago, but after only like 30 minutes of setup, my static website was live to the world! Oh, and even better news? It's free!

## What was my biggest take-away from this experience?

Honestly, given my desire to procrastinate everything, especially the more difficult/time-consuming it is, my biggest take-away was how valuable it is to get SOMETHING working ASAP. This website took me a grand total of maybe 4 hours to get set up, but that included a lot of debugging issues that I would have avoided if I had found a slightly better tutorial. To fix this for the future, I put together my own tutorial on how to make a static website with Hugo/Netlify. I had a friend try out my tutorial and it only took them like 45 minutes to get their site up and running. I will probably polish and then post this tutorial later.

More broadly outside of this learning experience, I've been trying to get better at trying to find faster ways to achieve milestones, even if it may not be the highest quality, the prettiest, whatever. As I improve at this, I notice I'm learning a lot more each day than I used to. Getting something out the door, even if it needs to be fixed up later, is often more rewarding than spending days/weeks/months longer than you needed to.

## What can we expect from this site in the future?

My current goal with this site is teaming up with my friends to both work on cool projects each week and then to write short articles about the experience. This is both an accountability tool as well as something cool to look back on later to see what I've learned/experienced. Most of the projects will be tech focused, but within that broad category, there are lots of different things planned: cloud computing, game mods, security, tooling, Arduino, etc.

## Resources

If you're interested in checking out the code (most of it is generated by the Hugo template) you can check out the GitHub repo: [daltonmblack/hugo-static-site](https://github.com/daltonmblack/hugo-static-site).
